"Jeremiah 29:11 - For I know the plans I have for you, declares the LORD, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future."
"Psalm 23:1-6 - The LORD is my shepherd, I shall not be in want.  He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside quiet waters,  he restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake.  Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.  You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows.  Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the LORD forever."
"John 3:16 - ""For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life."
"Romans 8:28 - And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose."
"Isaiah 41:10 - So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand."
"Proverbs 3:5-6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding;  in all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight."
"Psalm 46:1 - God is our refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble."
"Galatians 5:22-23 - But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,  gentleness and self-control. Against such things there is no law."
Hebrews 11:1 - Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see.
"2 Timothy 1:7 - For God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love and of self-discipline."
"1 Corinthians 10:13 - No temptation has seized you except what is common to man. And God is faithful; he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can stand up under it."
"Proverbs 22:6 - Train a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it."
"Isaiah 40:31 - But those who hope in the LORD will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not grow weary, they will walk and not be faint."
"Joshua 1:9 - Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be terrified; do not be discouraged, for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go."""
"Philippians 4:6 - Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God."
"Hebrews 12:2 - Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God."
"John 10:10 - The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full."
"Zephaniah 3:17 - The LORD your God is with you, he is mighty to save. He will take great delight in you, he will quiet you with his love, he will rejoice over you with singing."""
"2 Corinthians 5:17 - Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old has gone, the new has come! "
James 5:16 - Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective.
"Deuteronomy 31:6 - Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or terrified because of them, for the LORD your God goes with you; he will never leave you nor forsake you."""
1 Corinthians 16:13 - Be on your guard; stand firm in the faith; be men of courage; be strong.
"Matthew 11:28 - ""Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."
Philippians 4:13 - I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength
