"We will only pass in this world once. So, anything that we have to do, must be done. So, let us do it now!"
Living in this world is so full of uncertainty... we will never know what will happen to us.
"To be able to succeed in LIFE, we must have the art of perseverance, the power of dreaming and the science of praying..."
"If you think you can, YOU CAN! If you think you cannot, you are right!"
Life is not a matter of chance; it's a matter of choice.
"A parent who brings up a child to be a racist damages that child, damages the community in which they live, damages our hopes for a better world. A parent who teaches a child that there is only one sexual orientation and that anything else is evil denies our humanity and their own too"
"Better to have the business continuity plan and not need it, than to need the plan and not have it"
Discovery consists of seeing what everybody has seen and thinking what nobody has thought
"Don’t worry about persons not knowing you, but strive to be worth knowing."
Don't take life too seriously anyway you won't escape alive from it!
"Don't tell people how to do things, tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results. "
"Dont think of the future, think of what you can do in the present...."
"Dont worry so much, God has a plan for all of us"
Each human is an extension of God's senses same as a vine plant extends itself through its leaves.
"Each human is an extension of God's senses same as a vine plant extends itself through its leaves."""
Enjoyment in work helps produce a perfect product.
God is Intelligence; Intelligence exists forever but the physical life may last a short time.
God is Light.
God will end this world when everything has been discovered and explored by humans.
Great effort springs naturally from great attitude. Great teamwork is the only way we create the breakthroughs that define our careers.
Happiness is being contented of what you have.
"I am here because I was once a victim of discrimination. Now, I am so excited for revenge."
"If it's not programmable, don't do it!"
"If the Americans can build nuclear bombs, send man to the moon and travel freely to Earth's orbit, Filipinos are very far behind to catch up in any field."
"If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader."
"I'm starting afresh, I'm starting a new; in Jesus name."
In God I trust that He will guide me to the right path.
"In order to live successful, you need to work only for two things; things that matters today and things that matters 20 years ahead."
"In preparing for battle, I have always found that plans are useless, but planning is indispensable."
In the world of science and God; nothing is impossible.
Intelligence is Life.
Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.
Life is full of uncertainties; We really don't know what will happen to us.
"Lord I have now accepted who I am, I can't change my personality but I can make it righteous."
"Lord, I am a sinner. Please forgive me and help me go to the right direction and never leave my side all my days all my life."
"Lord, thank you for giving another new day of challenges."
"Lord, what is my purpose in life?"
Men are born pretty much alike but through their habit they grow farther and farther apart.
"My angel, please watch me while I sleep. "
"My holy spirit, fill my heart with God's wisdom."
Never assume you know everything. Never assume you've seen everything. Never discount the value of a book. Or a sharpened trout.
"Proverbs 3:5,6 - Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths."
Rome was not built in one day.
Stick to your goals even if it's impossible!
Success comes only to those who are prepared for it.
The most important thing is the ability to adapt and adjust to the situation.
The purpose of man as a creature is to be able to do things that will please his Maker.
The real treasure on Earth is the intelligence and legacy that promotes a better and peaceful future.
"There are only two rules on being successful; first figure out what you want to do and second, do it!"
This world is a spiritual world. Viewing everyone as a spirit would definitely change the way we live.
"To love God in all your mind, body and soul."
To love your neighbors as you love yourself.
We all need to remain client-centric and market-relevant in all that we do. Our best people need to be on the front lines leading our people and serving our clients.
"We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit. -- Aristotle"
We go above and beyond to make a world of difference.
We should only worship and look up to God and treat all humans as equals. God is the most powerful of all!
"We will only live once; so, anything we can do must be done; so, let us do it now!"
"What if I'm the only hope that God has to bring peace, unity and order to this nation or planet?"
What is important is the application of knowledge and God's gifts.
"When you have eliminated all which is impossible, then whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth."
Work hard and be happy!
You are the change that you dream and collectively we are the change that this world needs.”
"Your attitude, not your aptitude, will determine your altitude."
Never thinks that God's delays are God's denials. True prayers always receives what it asks or something better.
Aim high; think high.
Work as if everything depended on you; pray as if everything depended on God.
It is not the matter of winning but giving your best.
"' If I wanted to give something to everyone of you, I would not give you money or material presents. These things I have found out in my long experience, spoil a young man or boy rather than improve him. I would give to everyone of you the power to become men of sterling character, true men, trusted men, trained men and men who will withstand the severest test of their morals.'' ---- Teodore R. Yangco "
Send them the flowers while still they can smell it.
Words are like leaves where they are abound much fruits sense beneaths are rarely found. Alexander Pope
The trouble most of us is that we rather ruined by praise than saved by criticism. Pilosopong Tasyo of Noli Me Tangere
Deepest feeling always shows itself in silence.
The best way to make our dreams come true is to wake up.
To know what you know and know what you do not know is knowledge.
"It is not the worst thing in the world to fail, the worst thing is not to try."
"Man's capacity to develop himself is unlimited, all he needs is continued interests,proper training, systematic scheduling of tasks to be done and strong faith in himself. "
"Making wise choices is indeed a very important step on life;hence,you have to be very careful. A wrong step may mean a lifetime regret."
Discipline makes the difference with such inner strength you cannot fail.
"The greater the challenge, the better test for the skill and endurance."
The noisest the water is the shallowest.
Difficulties is the stepping stone to success.
No one in the world is useliess.
Words without action are useless like weeds.
Something which has to be done is always something to be thought of.
A talker and not a doer is not doing any activity at all. It is all for display.
One who proudly talks but does not act looks silly.
"A talker, not a doer, is a mere loud mouth."
No fruitful thing will come out of words without action.
Lost time can never be regained.
"The longing to be liked, to be held in esteem, to be a sought after person is fundamental in us."
Studying in advance will lead you to the top.
People are lonely because they build walls instead of bridges.
What's the use of striving if your not healthy enough to enjoy the fruit of it.
An ounce of application is worth a ton of obstruction. --Booker T. Washington
All serious daring starts from within. --- Eudora Welty
Our investigations have always contributed more to our amusement than to our knowledge. ---- Will Rogers
Courage is like love. It needs hope to nourish it. --- Napoleon
I used to think the worst thing in life is to end up all alone...It's not...The worst thing in life is to end up with people ...that make you feel all alone. ---Robin Williams
I don't care that they stole my idea I care that they don't have any of their own - Nikola Tesla
" The gift of mental power comes from God, Divine Being, and if we concentrate our minds on that truth, we become in tune with this great power.' - Nikola Tesla "
"In all my perplexities and distresses, the Bible has never failed to give me light and strength. - Robert E.Lee"
“Rather fail with honour than succeed by fraud.” – Sophocles
"The sky is not the limit; Your MIND is."
"Your body loves you; Love it back!"
"Whatever is good for your SOUL, do that!"
"Home is where the HEART is."
What’s the point of having the best technologies—and living in the world we are living in—if we are not joining forces to make the world a better place. -- Pierre Nanterme
The president should set the example of a big heart, an honest mind, sound instincts, the virtue of healthy impatience and an abiding love for the common man. -- Ramon Magsaysay
“Between our way of life and communism there can be no peace, no paralyzing coexistence, no gray neutralism. There can only be conflict-total and without reconciliation.” -- Ramon Magsaysay
“This country [the Philippines] is like a pyramid, like a tower. It is made up of millions of stones... . And the foundation stone of this pyramid is the common man.”-- Ramon Magsaysay
“Guns alone are not the answer. We must provide hope for young people for better housing, clothing, and food; and if we do, the radicals will wither away” -- Ramon Magsaysay
“The mistake the world is making with the simple peoples is to try and hurry them into political concepts they don't understand and aren't prepared to cope with. I know. I am a peasant myself. ... I say, Spit on the big, fancy schemes. I want all the little things first. Then perhaps we can get on to the bigger things.” -- Ramon Magsaysay
“I believe that he who has less in life should have more in law.” -- Ramon Magsaysay
