Texas, U.S.A. was once referred to as “Nuevas Filipinas” or “New Philippines”. According to Texas State Historical Association, both Nueva Filipinas and Nuevo Reino de Filipinas were secondary names assigned to an area of Texas located above the Medina River.
Doctrina Christiana is the first book published in the Philippines, was published in 1593, by the Dominican press. Because of the monopoly of printing presses by religious orders prior to the 19th century, early written literature was predominantly religious in content and in purpose.
The largest crocodile ever captured in the Philippines (1823) was found in Laguna de Bay.
Fort San Pedro was the nucleus of the first Spanish settlement in the Philippines.
The first modern building in the Philippines is considered to be the Crystal Arcade in Escolta, completed in 1932.
he original Philippine flag, sewn in Hong Kong in 1898, was made of silk.
The word Filipinas first appeared in coins.
Archipelago de San Lazarus was the name Ferdinand Magellan first gave to the islands he "discovered."
The first line of Jose Rizal's Mi Ultimo Adios is Adios patria adorada.
The hottest day in the Philippines was recorded on April 29, 1912 when the temperature reached 108.32 degrees Fahrenheit (42.4 degrees Celsius) in Tuguegarao, Cagayan. The coldest day was recorded in Baguio city back in January 7, 1903 when the thermometer dipped way down to 37.4 degrees Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius).
The first Greek fraternity in the Philippines is the University of the Philippines' Upsilon Sigma Phi (established in 1918). It does not have any branches outside the UP system. Among its alumni are the preserved ex-President Ferdinand E. Marcos and his arch-nemesis, the late Senator Benigno 'Ninoy Forever' Aquino. The first sorority with a Greek name is Sigma Delta Phi, also at UP and sister sorority of Upsilon Sigma Phi, established in 1938. (Partly contributed by Butch Bandong.)
Philippine Airlines' first flight was from Manila to Baguio on March 15, 1941. The plane was a twin-engine Beech Model 18 carrying five passengers. There was no attendant or lavatory. It reached Baguio in 45 minutes.
In the Philippines, Filipinos were introduced to the English language in 1762 by British invaders, not Americans. Philippines is the world's 3rd largest English-speaking nation, next to the USA and the UK.
The second oldest philippine printing press next to Manila can be found in Pila Laguna. The first book printed was named Vocabulario Delengua Tagala - the philippines first filipino - spanish dictionary which was printed in 1613, 25 years older than the first book printed in the United States.
The world's largest pearl was discovered by a Filipino diver in a giant Tridacna (mollusk) under the Palawan Sea in 1934. Known as the "Pearl of Lao-Tzu", the gem weighs 14 pounds and measures 9 1/2 inches long and 5 1/2 inches in diameter. As of May 1984, it was valued at US$42 million. It is believed to be 600 years old.
Alto Broadcasting System (ABS) Channel 3, the first television station in the country, went on the air in 1953.
Ilo-Ilo golf and country club is the oldest golf club in the Philippines. It was built at 1908 by Irish Engineers.
The balcony at the Aguinaldo Shrine used during Independence Day celebrations was added later. The actual Act of Declaration of Philippine Independence was made from a window, not a balcony.





