The Cagayan River, the Philippines longest river, originates in Nueva Vizcaya.
The oldest Philippine university for women is Centro Escolar University.
The biggest game preserve and wildlife sanctuary in the Philippines is located on Calauit Island in Palawan.
The Philippine mammal with the biggest eyes in relation to its body is the tarsier.
The Presidential Saber is awarded to the top graduate of the Philippine Military Academy.
Palawan has the largest land area among the Philippine provinces.
Negros Occidental has the most cities among Philippine provinces.
Cebu is the oldest Philippine city.
Alphabetically, the first province of the Philippines which comes first is Abra in the Ilocos region.
Rio Grande de Mindanao is the longest river in Mindanao.
Luzon is the biggest island (141,395 sq km) among the Philippine Archipelago which consists of 7,107 (most figures) islands and islets stretching some 1,850 kilometers from north to south and 1,107 kilometers from west to east at its widest point.
Mt. Apo in Mindanao, a dormant volcano, is the highest mountain in the Philippines at 2,954 meters (9,689 feet). Mt. Pulog in Luzon is second at 2,928 meters (9,604 feet).
Cagayan River in Luzon is the longest river, snaking for 353 kilometers (221 miles) across the provinces of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Cagayan before finally flowing into the South China Sea in Aparri in Cagayan.
According to the 1990 census, Metro Manila has a population density of 12,315 persons per square kilometer (32,000/ sq.mi.), the highest in the country.
The longest underground river system accessible to man IN THE WORLD is located at the St. Paul National Park in Palawan.
The safest province geologically is Palawan. It is farthest province from volcanoes and earthquake faults.
Davao City is the largest city in the Philippines with an area of 2,211 sq. km., about three times the size of Metro-Manila.
The largest employer in the Philippines other than the government is San Miguel Corporation which has over 39,000 full-time employees.
The world's second deepest spot underwater is in the Philippines. This spot, about 34,440 feet (10,497 meters) below the sea level, is known as the Philippine Deep or the Mindanao Trench. The Philippine Deep is in the floor of the Philippine Sea. The German ship Emden first plumbed the trench in 1927. The world's deepest part of the ocean is the Marianas Trench, which is over 11,000 meters below the seal level.
Of the 500 known coral species in the world, 488 are found in the Philippines.
The Philippines is home to some of the world's most exotic birds. One of the most endangered species is the exotic Kalangay or the Philippine cockatoo (Cacatua haematuropygia), which belongs to Psittacidae or the family of parrots. Some cockatoos can live up to 50 years. They are known for mimicking human voices. Most of them measure 33 centimeters in length and weigh 0.29 kilogram.
The extremely venomous Faint-banded Sea Snake is the most toxic snake in the world. It can be found in the waters of Visayas and Panay areas in the Philippines, New Guinea, Australia, Solomon Islands, Gulf of Thailand and Timor Sea.
The Philippine Mouse Deer (Tragalus nigricans) of Balabac Island in Palawan is the world’s smallest hoofed animal. It is locally known as Pilandok and stands only about 40 centimeters at the shoulder level.
A shell called Glory of the Sea (Connus gloriamaris) that is found in the Philippines is considered as one of the most expensive shells in the world.
The largest eagle in the world is the Philippine Eagle (Pithecophaga jefferyi). It is formerly known as Monkey-eating Eagle.
The Philippine Tarsier (Tarsius syrichta) is considered as the world’s smallest primate. It measures only about twelve centimeters in length. Its two big eyes cannot move and do not have a tapetum – the upper protective tissue.
The Saltwater Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus), which can be found in the Philippines and nearby countries, is considered as the world’s largest reptile.
The Dwarf Goby (Pandaka pygmaea) is the world’s second smallest freshwater fish. It measures 1.2 centimeters or less than half of an inch, the 2nd tiniest known vertebrate.
The Philippines has the most numerous species of birds and butterflies in the world.
Fish species found in Philippine waters is the most diverse in the world.
The world’s smallest commercial fish is “Sinarapan” (Mistichthys luzonensis). It can only be found in Lakes Bato and Buhi in Camarines Sur. It grows to an average length of 1.25 centimeters, only slightly longer than the Dwarf Goby.
The largest bat in the world is the Giant Golden-crowned Flying-fox (Acerodon jubatus). It is a rare and endangered fruit bat that can be found only in the Philippines. It has a wing span of at least 1.5 m (5 ft) and weighs approximately 1.2 kg (3 lbs) and is also known as the Golden-capped Fruit Bat.
The world’s tiniest shell and can be found under Philippine waters is the Pisidum. It measures less than 1 millimeter long.
The Giant Clam (Tridacna gigas) found off the shores of the Philippines is the largest living bivalve mollusk and can weigh more than 200 kilograms (440 pounds), measure as much as 1.2 meters (4 feet) across and have an average lifespan in the wild of 100 years or more.
An endangered flower, locally named as “Uruy”, (Rafflesia sp.) has no stem and leaves is one of the largest flowers in the world. It measures about 22 inches in diameter. It can be found in Sibalom National Park in Antique province and other places in Southeast Asia.
The Philippines is the world’s number one producer of coconut. Likewise, the Philippines is one of the largest exporter of tropical fruits.
The sweetest mango can be found in the Philippines.
The largest Pineapple was harvested in one of the largest plantation in southern Philippines.
The Philippines is the only Christian nation in Asia.
The third largest English-speaking country in the world is the Philippines. Mount Pinatubo’s eruption in the Philippines on June 15, 1991 created one of the world’s largest mushroom clouds. The effects of the eruption were felt worldwide. It ejected roughly 10 billion metric tons of magma, and 20 million tons of SO2, bringing vast quantities of minerals and metals to the surface environment. It injected large amounts of aerosols into the stratosphere -more than any eruption since that of Krakatoa in 1883.
The largest province in the Philippines is Palawan followed by Isabela. Palawan is considered as the largest province in the country. It has a total land area of 14,896.3 square kilometers distributed in 1,769 islands. The next largest province is Isabela, with a land area of 10,664 square kilometers.
The smallest province is Batanes, the northernmost part of the Philippine archipelago with only a total land area of 209 square kilometers.
The town of Kalayaan, a group of small islands in South China Sea west of Palawan province, had the smallest population among municipalities at 223.
The world’s longest navigable underground river is Puerto Princesa Subterranean River found in Palawan. It features a limestone karst mountain landscape with an 8.2 km. navigable underground river. A distinguishing feature of the river is that it winds through a cave before flowing directly into the South China Sea.
At 115, 739 sq. mi, the Philippines is larger than Laos and Cambodia but slightly smaller than Japan and Spain.
The largest falls in the Philippines is Maria Cristina Falls in Lanao Del Norte located in the southern part of the country.
The largest lake in the Philippines which measures 900 sq km is Laguna de Bay. It is located between the provinces of Rizal and Laguna.
Three of the world’s most famous and finest beaches in the world located in the Philippines include Boracay, Dakak and Siargao.
Taal Volcano, located in Taal Lake, is a volcano in a volcano. It is considered by many as the world’s most active volcano.
Three of the worlds’ top ten largest malls are located in the Philippines; SM City North EDSA in Quezon City with an area of 460,000 m² (4.74 million sq ft), SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City with an area of 410,000 m² (4.67 million sq ft) and SM Megamall in Mandaluyong City with an area of 348,000 m² (3.75 million sq ft). SM City North Edsa is the world’s 2nd largest mall.
The Largest pearl ever found is named “Pearl of Allah” or “Pearl of Lao-Tzu”. This was found by Filipino diver in a giant Tridacna in the Palawan Sea in 1934. The Pearl weighs 40 pounds and worth approximately $ 40 USA.
“The Harvest” by miniaturist Norris Castillo created what is perhaps the smallest piece of painting in the country. This oil-on-canvas painting measures 1/4 inches in width and 3/8 inches in length. It is now exhibited at the National Museum.
The northernmost island of the Philippines is Y’ami (Mavudis) Island, which is 190 km away from Taiwan.
Its southernmost island is Saluag Island, which is 43.3 kilometers east of Borneo. The westernmost part of the Philippines is Palawan and the easternmost is Davao Oriental.
The Philippines and Taiwan is separated by the Bashi Channel in the north and separated with Borneo by the Celebes Sea in the south.
The Philippines has the world’s longest discontinuous coastline (34,600 km.).
The Philippines has 7,107 islands but only approximately 1,000 of its islands are populated.
Cagayan River or Magat River is the longest river in the Philippines.
Mt Apo in Mindanao at 2,954 meters or 9,691 ft is the highest point in the Philippines.
On the opposite, the lowest point in the Philippines is the Philippine Trench. Its deepest point, the Galathea Depth, has a depth of 10,540 meters (5,763 fathoms or 34,580 feet).
Davao City, with an area of 2,212 sq km, in southern Philippines is regarded as one of the world’s largest cities. Most of these areas, however, are distributed as forests, coconut groves and rice fields. In comparison, New York, the largest city in the United States, has an area of only 787 square kilometers while the whole of Metro Manila covers only 636 square kilometers.
The world’s largest pair of shoes, each measuring 5.5 meters long, 2.25 meters wide and 1.83 meters high can be found in Marikina City. The heel alone measures 41 centimeters or 16 inches. The P2-million shoes can reportedly fit to a 37.5-meter or 125-foot giant. Around 30 people could put their feet into the colossal shoes simultaneously.
San Fernando City in Pampanga province created in 2002 the world’s largest Christmas lantern – a P5-million structure with 26.8 meters in diameter.
The world’s largest Catholic university located in one campus in terms of student population is the University of Santo Tomas (UST) in Manila. It is an academic institution founded by the Dominicans. It is 25 years older than the oldest university n the US – the Harvard University.
The bamboo organ at St. Joseph Church in Las Pinas City is arguably the world’s largest bamboo organ. The centuries-old musical instrument was constructed between 1792 and 1819. It has 174 bamboo pipes, 122 horizontal reeds of soft metal, a five-octave keyboard, and 22 stops arranged in vertical rows.
The world’s largest high school in terms of student population is Rizal High School in Caniogan, Pasig City. The school has more than 20,000 students. Graduation rites are conducted 5 times and that means the class valedictorian has to deliver his/her valedictory address 5 times also.
The Philippines’ oldest city is Cebu City – the queen city of the south.
The residents of Baguio City took pride in having tossed what was believed to be the world’s largest salad – a three-ton mix of assorted vegetables.
The longest bridge in the Philippines is San Juanico Bridge located in San Juanico Strait. This bridge connects the islands of Samar and Leyte in the Visayas.
The Philippine land area is just about 1/30 of the United States, but the Philippines has a total of 36,289 kilometers of coastline while the US has only 19,924 kilometers of coastline. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
“Conus Gloriamaris” (‘glory of the sea’) is the world’s rarest and priceless seashell among the 12,000 seashell species found in the Philippines. And, among the 500 coral species worldwide, 488 are found in the Philippine seas. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
Saint Paul National Park of Palawan Province in the Philippines has the longest underground river system in the world that is accessible and navigable to humans. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
The “tamaraw” is a species of the buffalo family that is similar to the Philippine carabao. It is considered the largest Philippine wild animal, and they are only found in Mindoro Province. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
Mount Apo is a dormant volcano of Mindanao (Davao), at 2,954 meters high followed by Mount Pulog in Luzon at 2,928 meters high. Mount Apo is now becoming a popular tourist destination especially among mountain hikers and campers. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
Davao City in Mindanao Island is the biggest city in the country with an area of 2,211 square kilometer. Metro Manila is about three times the size of Davao City. It is famous for durians (that stinky but delicious king of the fruits) and bananas, among other products and resources. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
Negros Occidental in the Visayas Islands (where Cebu is) has the most cities among the provinces in the Philippines. Negros is the popular producer of sugar products and tourism destinations. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf

 



