Juan Luna killed his wife and mother-in-law. He was later acquitted of his “crime of passion.” In 1892, Juan Luna, famous Filipino painter of 400 masterpieces, was involved in a bloody murder at their Paris home. The victims? His wife, Maria de la Paz Pardo de Tavera, and his mother-in-law. It is said that extreme jealousy forced Luna to pull the trigger. He was later acquitted in February 1893 after the court categorized the murder as a “crime of passion”.
Cory Aquino’s favorite color was RED, not YELLOW. The late President Corazon Aquino as well as the EDSA People Power Revolution are best remembered through the iconic ‘yellow ribbon’. However, she once admitted that RED was actually her first favorite. The yellow color only came after some friends suggested the song “Tie A Yellow Ribbon” for Ninoy’s homecoming. Cory continued to use her yellow trademark after her husband’s death.
Major Archibald Butt, former military captain in the Philippines, died in the sinking of Titanic in 1912. In 1912, after a short trip to Europe, Butt embarked Titanic to return to the US. Sadly, he was one of the victims who perished when the ship sank. His body was never recovered.
A dog named “Serging” (alias “Avante”) received numerous awards in 1957 for his heroic act during the Magsaysay plane crash. Originally known as “Serging”, the dog was later renamed “Avante” to avoid offending Sergio Osmeña Jr. who was a Cebu mayor at that time. “Avante”, along with his owner Marcelino Nuya, helped save Nestor Mata, the only survivor of the plane crash that killed the late President Ramon Magsaysay.
In the 1970s, a 22.6-foot reticulated phyton terrorized Luzon and swallowed an Agta Negrito. Agta Negritos are indigenous people in Luzon who, in the 1970s, competed with a reticulated phyton for their main sources of food namely Philippine deer, Philippine warty pigs and long-tailed macaques.
President Ferdinand Marcos created a safari park in the Philippines where you can see African animals such as giraffes, zebras, and antelopes. Located in Busuanga in Palawan, the Calauit Island was declared as a game preserve and wildlife sanctuary by the Presidential Proclamation No. 1578 under the Marcos administration.
There’s a prison in Palawan where inmates are allowed to work in rice fields and act as tour guides without the need of walls or hundreds of prison guards. The Iwahig Prison and Penal Farm in Puerto Princesa, Palawan started during the American Occupation. Governor Luke Wright was the one who authorized its establishment on November 16, 1904. During its first few years, it faced several instances of attempted escapes, but when Col. John R. White became its superintendent in 1906, the colony started to become a huge success.
Cesar Virata is the first and last Prime Minister of the Philippines after WW II.
Aimee Carandang is the first Filipina to become a commercial plane pilot.
Jose P. Laurel has the most children (7) among the Philippine presidents.
Eva Estrada Kalaw is the first Filipina to be elected senator twice, in 1965 and in 1971.
Aurora is the only Philippine province named after a first lady.
Gen. Tomas Karingal was the first assassinated victim of the NPA's Alex Boncayao Brigade.
Frank Murphy was the last American governor-general of the Philippines.
Hajji Butu was the first Muslim Filipino to become a senator.
The most popular and durable of all Philippine almanacs is called Kalendariong Tagalog ni Honorio Lopez.
Rainier Lagman was the first Filipino to have a heart transplant.
Gemma Cruz was the first Filipina to win an international beauty title - Miss International 1964.
P5 million was the highest prize offered for the capture of then-rebel-now-turned-senator Gringo Honasan.
Miguel Lopez de Legazpi was the first Spanish governor-general of the Philippines
Evangeline de Castro of Baguio was the first Filipina to win the Miss Philippines title.
Marissa Delgado - The first Filipina who appeared in Playboy (sometime in 1965). She wasn't a centerfold but she did expose ... her back! The first Filipina who appeared as a centerfold is the beautiful Lourdes Estores of Hawaii.
8 - ocho, walo, eight - is the size of Imelda's shoes.
Ma Mon Luk - credited to be the inventor of mami. He was a Cantonese immigrant who probably named the dish after his surname and the Chinese word for noodles which is mi.
Kristo the Tagalog name of bookmakers at cockfights. He's called that because he poses like Jesus when he calls for bets and shouts the odds (arms extended like the Lord himself).
Maria Teresa Calderon - World champion speed reader as listed in the Guiness Book of World Records
Fernando Amorsolo, a painter, was the first national artist declared by the Philippine government. The award was conferred on Amorsolo in April 1972, several days after his death.
The symbolic name for the Philippines, Juan dela Cruz, is not a Filipino invention? It was coined by R. McCulloch-Dick, a Scottish-born journalist working for the Manila Times in the early 1900s, after discovering it was the most common name in blotters
Mayon is the most beautiful mountain I have ever seen, the world-renowned Fujiyama (Mt. Fuji) of Japan sinking into perfect insignificance by comparison. British traveler-writer A. Henry Savage Landor
Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo met Apolinario Mabini just before he declared independence.
Andres Bonifacio and practically the entire Katipunan idolized Rizal. Bonifacio wanted to obtain Rizal's consent to start the revolution.
Andres Bonifacio's popularly known image (waving a bolo, wearing an open camisa chino, and rolled-up pants) is probably far from his true likeness. Bonifacio preferred in battle his revolver over his bolo. The sole known photograph of him shows him wearing a coat.
Among the membership dues of La Liga Filipina was a monthly fee of ten centavos.
Gen. Miguel Malvar was also a Philippine President.
Andres Bonifacio had four years of formal schooling compared to seven years for Emilio Aguinaldo. However, while Bonifacio wrote and spoke good Spanish, Aguinaldo was barely able to speak Spanish.
Mabini was the first victim of censorship by Aguinaldo.
Andres Bonifacio defined a Tagalog as "anyone born and raised in the archipelago such that even if you are Visayan, Ilocano, or Kapampangan, you are also a Tagalog."
The Philippine national hero, Dr. Jose Rizal, is known to have started reading and writing at the age of 2; and he could speak 20 languages including French, Greek, Chinese, Latin, German, Cebuano, Tagalog, etc.
- See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf
A Japanese person did not invent the karaoke but a Filipino – Roberto del Rosario. He first called his invention “Sing-Along-System” but the Japanese popularized it and called the ‘karaoke’ meaning ‘to sing without accompaniment’. - See more at: http://www.cebu-bluewaters.com/philippine-facts-and-trivia.html#sthash.tvrIfvtt.dpuf





