What moral issue best defines you?,not going,comment,stopping the boats,the opposition,smear our credibility
What is the biggest effect of the internet?,not about,report,voting Liberal,the previous government,consult with operational commanders
Describe your worst experience,unwilling,consult,fall into the trap,the media,put potential jobs at risk
Discuss the most memorable event in your life,not inclined,release the information,carefully prepared scripted remarks,the Australian people,comment on ongoing operations
Is capitalism the best political and economic system? Defend your choice.,not looking,go into detail,what can only be described as,the boats,underfund our educational commitments
Is knowledge more important than wisdom?,unable,speak to the media,,operational matters,claim all sorts of things
Is a glass half full or half empty? Explain your choice.,unwilling,get the numbers,,the electorate,spread rumours
Why are humans so fascinated with understanding the universe?,not going,give a briefing,,the government,undermine our economic credentials
Does technology live up to it's promise?,not able,outline my response,,law enforcement processes,jump the queue
Ghosts I'd like to meet,not about,provide a response,,these briefings,receive credible reports
The morality of zoos,disinclined,share that with you,,Amnesty International,engage in some political commentary
Three keys to a happy life,not compelled,make a trivial announcement,,the Greens,join the dots
Reality TV shows,not obligated,consider new legislation,,the Labor Party,just lie
Beauty,not required,run airlines,,the local community,understand the importance of consistency and policy in these areas
You are what you eat,not supposed,support that committment,,the High Court,"be dragged kicking and screaming , as the previous government was"
Love is a choice,,make too much of a meal of this,,the indonesian government,misrepresent the position
Professional athletes are overpaid,,express a view,,the Senate,demean and debase a distinguished Australian
Dogs are better than cats,,encourage small business,,these policy makers,take it on faith
How to become a millionaire,,sack anybody,,the gays,treat with very deep respect
Importance of communication,,have a mandate,,boats,stop the boats
You are an ant. Convince an anteater to not eat you.,,engage in idle speculation,,women,axe the tax
Explain three different ways to eat an Oreo cookie.,,,,Australians,break the bank
Tell us about a nickname you have and how you got it.,,,,the country,respect my authority
Convince us to vote for you as president of the USA.,,,,people,pay money
Explain three uses for a pencil besides for writing.,,,,muckrakers,ensure probity
Read us a letter you might write home when you are staying at a circus training summer camp.,,,,thugs in the scallop industry,work miracles
Tell us about your summer plans.,,,,the housewives of Australia,begin the process
Convince us that homework is harmful to your health.,,,,traumatised young women,always stand by people
Tell us about your favorite pet and why it should win the Greatest Pet Ever award.,,,,dysfunctional families,repair the damage of the previous government
"If you were an animal, what would you be?",,,,these different people,balance the books
You are a salesperson trying to sell us the shirt you have on.,,,,public servants,cut red tape
Explain how a smart person might not be wise.,,,,drought-hit farmers,roll a fat cigarette
"If you were the teacher, how would our class be different?",,,,magic wands,trot out some thoughtbubbles
Tell us about the hardest thing you have ever done.,,,,existing programs,challenge the leadership
You are a mad scientist. Tell us about your latest invention.,,,,government,build jobs
You are a famous sports player. Describe your best moment of a game.,,,,lefty watermelons,give credit where credit is due
You are a famous rock star. Explain what the lyrics of your latest hit song mean.,,,,union thugs,make it up
Tell us about the best job.,,,,responsible management,kick this mob out
Explain the benefits of drinking milk.,,,,intelligent stewardship,ditch the witch
Tell us how to become a millionaire.,,,,our brothers and sisters,try it
Tell us about the best dream you've ever had.,,,,the green army,lead us down a slippery slope
Create a myth that explains why pelicans have large beaks.,,,,our pet Speaker,have a national discussion
Tell us how to make a new friend.,,,,work for the dole,sell the nbn
Tell us about the most fun recess activity.,,,,aboriginals,hide the budget
Tell us about your favorite holiday.,,,,Ruddbot,do it tough
Tell us how to make your favorite meal.,,,,the Howard government,
Explain which came first: the chicken or the egg.,,,,Leigh Sales,
Explain the rules to your favorite game.,,,,mugs,
"If everything in the world had to change to the same color, what color would you choose and why?",,,,fairweather friends,
Explain how you would use a hat to catch butterflies. Be sure to,,,,,
identify the type of hat that is required.,,,,,
You are a piece of paper. Describe how we should use you before you get recycled.,,,,,
Explain how to make a pizza.,,,,,
Explain four uses for a drinking glass other than for holding a liquid.,,,,,
Convince our principal to give students their birthdays off of school.,,,,,
Describe how you would modify a snail so it can go faster.,,,,,
Explain the best way to teach an old dog a new trick.,,,,,
Describe the life cycle of a frog or butterfly.,,,,,
What moral issue best defines you?,,,,,
What is the biggest effect of the internet?,,,,,
Describe your worst experience,,,,,
Discuss the most memorable event in your life,,,,,
Is capitalism the best political and economic system? Defend your choice.,,,,,
Is knowledge more important than wisdom?,,,,,
Is a glass half full or half empty? Explain your choice.,,,,,
Why are humans so fascinated with understanding the universe?,,,,,
Does technology live up to it's promise?,,,,,
Ghosts I'd like to meet,,,,,
The morality of zoos,,,,,
Three keys to a happy life,,,,,
Reality TV shows,,,,,
Beauty,,,,,
You are what you eat,,,,,
Love is a choice,,,,,
Professional athletes are overpaid,,,,,
Dogs are better than cats,,,,,
How to become a millionaire,,,,,
Importance of communication,,,,,
Bottles versus cans,,,,,
Real or fake Christmas trees,,,,,
peer to peer technology,,,,,
Motorcycle helmets,,,,,
the assasination of a dictator can/cannot be justified,,,,,
Curfews,,,,,
Alien abductions,,,,,
The worst/best book you ever read,,,,,
All time favorite movie,,,,,
Your first memory,,,,,
The best things in life are free,,,,,
Clothes make the man/woman,,,,,
"Happy drugs (prozac, zoloft, etc.)",,,,,
Good versus Evil,,,,,
Your favorite sound,,,,,
Your least favorite sound,,,,,
Exams are/are not good forms of assessment,,,,,
Why it's important to meditate,,,,,
What are you grateful for?,,,,,
Speed dating,,,,,
Your favorite relative,,,,,
Your favorite holiday,,,,,
Internet affairs,,,,,
The greatest gift we can give others is...,,,,,
If I were invisible for a day...,,,,,
What I would do if I knew I could not fail,,,,,
The most successful person I know,,,,,
Good grades matter,,,,,
Everyone should be a volunteer,,,,,
hybrid animals,,,,,
Capital Punishment (Death Penalty). Should a criminal ever be executed?,,,,,
Imagine you are a salesperson. Try to sell the class a bottle of whiteout.,,,,,
Give a summary and review of the last movie you saw. Critique it.,,,,,
Smoking. Should it be prohibited in public places? Why or why not?,,,,,
"Imagine you have just won the Mr. or Miss Universe pageant, a beauty and talent contest. You need to give a speech on television, expressing how happy you are, saying what the award means to you and thanking everyone.",,,,,
"Animal experimentation. Currently many medical and cosmetic companies test their products on animals, such as rats or monkeys This often leads to severe pain or death for the animals. Should animals be used for experiments? If so, under what conditions?",,,,,
Imagine you are an art critic. Interpret the famous painting depicted in the postcard. Use your imagination and explain what the people in the painting are doing and thinking. You could create a narrative of the events that led up to the picture.,,,,,
Is it important to know a second language? Should everyone learn a second language?,,,,,
"Imagine you are at an interview for your dream job. The interviewer starts the interview by saying, ""So tell me about yourself."" Answer the question.",,,,,
"Euthanasia is the practice of terminating the life of someone suffering with an incurable and usually painful illness. Is it ever justified? If so, when?",,,,,
Give a detailed physical description of the most beautiful person you have ever seen.,,,,,
Abortion. Should it be legal?,,,,,
Imagine the class is having a party and you need to teach the class how to play your favorite card game. Teach them.,,,,,
Genetic Cloning (making an exact copy of a person) Should it be allowed?,,,,,
Compare or Contrast the government of the United States with the government of your home country.,,,,,
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.,,,,,
He who pays the piper calls the tune.,,,,,
Give a person an inch and he will take,,,,,
A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is just putting on its shoes.,,,,,
"Nothing is totally black and white in this world. Many times, it's grey.",,,,,
